There are two global approaches in UI5 development:

1. Using the meta-framework **Fiori Elements** (you generate an application based on it and then add additional logic via the extension mechanism)
2. "Freestyle" — when you write the application from scratch (from a skeleton).

## Fiori Elements
1. **VERY** easy and convenient to generate many generic frontends. With minimal custom logic.
2. **VERY** inconvenient to extend the application if you need to do something that is not covered by the standard Fiori extension mechanism. In the end, the application becomes a mess, and it’s easier to rewrite it from scratch.

## Freestyle
1. Full freedom of UI customization, easy to extend
2. Writing from scratch is really inconvenient, but you can smooth out the rough edges by using application generators (e.g., yeoman)

## When to use which approach?

### Use Fiori Elements if:
1. All application logic is hidden on the backend (BOPF)
2. Standard Floorplans are sufficient (see [02. Appearance and Structure of Applications])
3. No serious customization is planned, more than just "hide/add some field"
**Then use Fiori Elements**

In all other cases, use **Freestyle**.
If you are unsure which option to choose — use **Freestyle**.

The only downside of Freestyle applications: writing them from scratch is inconvenient — but this is mitigated by templates and generators.
And all the smart-component features from **Fiori Elements** are also available out of the box in **Freestyle**.

---

## See also
- [02. Appearance and Structure of Applications](02.%20Appearance%20and%20Structure%20of%20Applications.md)
- [09. DataBinding in View](09.%20DataBinding%20in%20View.md)
- [16. Local XML Annotations](16.%20Local%20XML%20Annotations.md)
- [13. Routing and Navigation](13.%20Routing%20and%20Navigation.md)
- [08. oData](08.%20oData.md) 